Hello everyone,
and welcome to the decorators section of this course.
So, decorators can be thought of as functions
which modify the functionality of another function,
which I know sounds weird but they'll help
make your code shorter and more Pythonic.
It's a pretty advanced topic, and you'll run it to more
when you start to, working with Web frameworks
such as Django or Flask, with Python.
So, something I wanna note, before you start this lecture,
restart Python, and the Jupyter notebooks,
in order to keep track some of the global
functions we'll be working with.
I think the lecture will make more sense that way.
Okay, so we might have to split up this section
into multiple videos, so we'll see how it goes.
But what we're gonna do is just start explaining
decorators by slowly building up from functions.
So let's go ahead and do a little bit of a functions review.
So I'm gonna make the simplest function that I can.
I'm gonna make a function called, def func one.
Let me zoom in a bit for you guys.
And all it's gonna do is return one.
So if I call func, F-U-N-C, I get one.
So let's go over a bit, of a review with scope.
So remember from the nested statements lecture
that Python uses scope to know
what a label it's referring to.
So for instance, I'm going to create a variable called s.
And it's gonna be a string called
This is a global variable.
And notice how it's not inside any functions,
so it's global.
And it's not inside a class, either.
And so now, I'm gonna make a function,
I'm gonna rewrite func and it's gonna print locals.
Okay.
So remember that Python functions create a new scope,
meaning the function has its own namespace,
so this function has its own namespace
to find variable names when they're mentioned
from within the function.
So remember it checks this first
before checking the global scope.
And we can check for local variables and global variables
with locals,
and globals.
Those are just built-in functions that you can call
to get the globals and local variables.
So let's say I wanted to figure out, okay,
what are all the global variables I have.
If I say print globals, we're gonna get
a large output right now.
So we get all this, and this is basically a dictionary
of a bunch of, basically all the global variables
we have right now.
So what we can do, is,
just call the keys of that dictionary.
And so here are all the keys of that dictionary.
And this basically are all the global variables right now
that Python is holding onto.
And so remember that we created this s,
so it's a global variable and if you'll notice,
it's right here.
So it's a key, so I can actually,
since this is a dictionary,
call s, and it treats them all as strings.
It converts all the keys into strings.
And now,
this is a global variable pops out.
So, just to keep in mind, globals,
it's a dictionary of all the global variables
and what they stand for, and right now
we've created one called s,
which is just a string saying this is a global variable.
But now it's interesting is if I run my function,
remember this function just prints locals,
but since there's no variables defined within that function,
I get an empty dictionary out.
Alright, so that's just something to keep in mind.
So now we're gonna continue with building out the logic
of what a decorator actually is.
And in order to do that, I wanna remind you
that in Python as we discussed before,
everything is an object.
That means functions are objects,
which can be assigned labels
and passed into other functions.
So let's start with a simple example of that.
I'm gonna create a function, and it's called hello.
And it takes a name, and by default
I'll just have the name be Jose.
And I'll have it return hello space
plus the name.
Okay, so if I call hello right now I get hello Jose.
Now what I can do is assign a label to that function.
So, check this out, I'm gonna say greet
equals hello.
And notice that I'm not using parentheses here
because I'm not calling the function hello.
Instead I'm just assigning it to the variable.
So if I do this,
and then call greet.
It's a function, which is hello.
So then if I call greet closed,
it'll print out hello Jose.
So I set the greet variable equal to the hello function.
And something to understand is that this assignment
with greet, is not attached to the original function.
So if I delete hello,
so notice I've deleted that function from memory now.
So if I call hello, it says hello's not defined.
I have to run this cell again, to redefine it.
But I want you to realise that greet
isn't actually attached.
So greet still works.
Okay.
So, let's go over slowly what we've done.
We're thinking about decorators,
and we wanna build our understanding off of functions.
So here's an example of a simple function
that just returns one.
So if I call that function, I get one.
Now let's remember about global variables.
I set s to be global variable,
which is just a string saying this is a global variable.
And I've called the function F-U-N-C which prints locals.
And since there's no other local variables
defined within this function, just to remind this was scope,
if I were to call that function,
I get an empty dictionary out from that locals call.
Now something else, we wanted to check globals,
which we could do if that globals function
which returns that dictionary of all the globals,
and I can call the s key to get back the global variable.
Next, we wanted to reiterate
that functions can be assigned to variable labels,
'cause everything is an object in Python.
So I created a function called hello,
default was name equals Jose
and it just returned hello plus name.
So when I called hello, I got hello Jose.
Since everything in Python is an object,
I could assign hello to the variable greet.
Now something to note here
is that greet wasn't attached to hello,
so if I deleted hello, hello didn't work anymore
but greet still did.
Okay, so, that's it for now.
In the next video,
we're gonna learn about functions within functions.
And we're gonna also be dealing with this,
same hello and greet function.
Okay, I'll go ahead and stop the video here.
And we'll continue on in the next video.